DOCS-553: Refactor Motion Service page (#1116)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/motion/_index.md

  Transforms are not added to the config or carried into later processes.

- `constraints` ([Constraints](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/api/service/motion/v1#Constraints)): Pass in optional [motion constraints](./constraints/).
  By default, motion is unconstrained with the exception of obstacle avoidance.

- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): A generic struct, containing extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): Whether the move was successful.
- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

**Example usage:**

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
 // Access the Motion Service
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}

// Assumes a gripper configured with name "my_gripper" on the robot
myFrame := "my_gripper_offset"

goalPose := PoseInFrame(0, 0, 300, 0, 0, 1, 0)

// Move the gripper

> moved, err := motionService.Move(context.TODO(), goalPose, worldState, nil, nil)

Author: ```suggestion
moved, err := motionService.Move(context.Background(), goalPose, worldState, nil, nil)
```

  - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
    When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
    Important considerations:
    - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
    - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.
      This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
    - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.
      Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
      A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
      This is different from `destination` and `componentName`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.

>   - **Transforms**: These are a list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Transforms**: A list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify other transformations to temporarily add to the frame system at solve time.
  Transforms can be used to account for geometries that are attached to the robot but not configured as robot components.
  For example, you could use a transform to represent the volume of a marker held in your robot's gripper.
  Transforms are not added to the config or carried into later processes.
```

Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

If you need collision checking and obstacle avoidance, use [`Move`](#move).

{{% /alert %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `component_name` ([ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)): The name of the component to move.
  This component must support the `move_to_position` API call with a Pose.
  As of April 21, 2023, [arm](/components/arm/) is the only component so supported.

- `destination` ([PoseInFrame](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.PoseInFrame)):
  Describes where the `component_name` should end up.
  Can be any pose, from the perspective of any component whose location is configured as a [`frame`](../frame-system/).
  The `destination` will be converted into the frame of the component specified in `component_name` when passed to `move_to_position`.

> - `world_state` ([WorldState](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.WorldState)) (*optional*): Data structure specifying information about the world around the robot.
>   **See [note above](#move-vs-movetoposition); a custom implementation of `MoveToPosition` may or may not make use of `world_state`.**

Author: ```suggestion
- `world_state` ([WorldState](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.WorldState)) (*optional*): Not used. See [note above](#move-vs-movetoposition).
```

> 
>   `world_state` includes obstacles and transforms:
>   - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
>     When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
>     Important considerations:
>     - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
>     - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.
>       This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
>     - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.
>       Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
>       A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
>       This is different from `destination` and `component_name`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.
>   - **Transforms**: These are a list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Author: ```suggestion
```

my_frame = "my_arm_offset"

goal_pose = Pose(x=0, y=400, z=0, o_x=0, o_y=0, o_z=1, theta=0)

# Move the arm
moved = await motion.move_to_position(component_name=my_arm, destination=PoseInFrame(reference_frame="myFrame", pose=goal_pose), world_state=worldState, extra={})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.

- `componentName` ([resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): The name of the component to move.
This component must support the `MoveToPosition` API call with a Pose.
As of April 21, 2023, [arm](/components/arm/) is the only component so supported.

- `destination` ([PoseInFrame](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/referenceframe#PoseInFrame)):
  Describes where the `component_name` should end up.
  Can be any pose, from the perspective of any component whose location is configured as a [`frame`](../frame-system/).
  The `destination` will be converted into the frame of the component specified in `componentName` when passed to `MoveToPosition`.

> - `worldState` ([WorldState](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/referenceframe#WorldState)): Data structure specifying information about the world around the robot.
>   **See [note above](#move-vs-movetoposition); a custom implementation of `MoveToPosition` may or may not make use of `world_state`.**

Author: ```suggestion
- `worldState` ([WorldState](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/referenceframe#WorldState)): Not used.
```

  - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
    When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
    Important considerations:
    - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
    - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.
      This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
    - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.
      Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
      A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
      This is different from `destination` and `componentName`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.

>   - **Transforms**: A list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Transforms**: A list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify other transformations to temporarily add to the frame system at solve time.
  Transforms can be used to account for geometries that are attached to the robot but not configured as robot components.
  For example, you could use a transform to represent the volume of a marker held in your robot's gripper.
  Transforms are not added to the config or carried into later processes.
```

> 
>   `worldState` includes obstacles and transforms:
>   - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
>     When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
>     Important considerations:
>     - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
>     - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.
>       This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
>     - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.
>       Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
>       A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
>       This is different from `destination` and `componentName`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.
>   - **Transforms**: A list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Motion Service"
linkTitle: "Motion"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "The Motion Service enables your robot to plan and move its components relative to itself, other robots, and the world."
tags: ["motion", "motion planning", "services"]
icon: "/services/img/icons/motion.svg"
no_list: true
# SME: Motion team
---

The Motion Service enables your robot to plan and move itself or its components relative to itself, other robots, and the world.
The Motion Service:

1. Gathers the current positions of the robot’s components as defined with the [Frame System](../frame-system/).
2. Plans the necessary motions to move a component to a given destination.

The Motion Service can:

- use motion planning algorithms locally on your robot to plan coordinated motion across many components.
- pass movement requests through to individual components which have implemented their own motion planning.

## Configuration

> The Motion Service is enabled in RDK by default, and no extra configuration needs to be done in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/) to enable it.

Reviewer: Given the Frame System mention below, I would actually remove the second part of that sentence OR indicate that the service itself needs no configuration.

> You do need to configure frames for your components with the [Frame System](../frame-system/).

Reviewer: Strongly agree with this.

> You do need to configure frames for your components with the [Frame System](../frame-system/).

Author: Good call

> This defines the spacial context of your robot.

Reviewer: Also "spatial"

## API

The Motion Service supports the following methods:

Method Name | Description
----------- | -----------
[`Move`](#move) | Move multiple components in a coordinated way to achieve a desired motion.
[`MoveSingleComponent`](#movesinglecomponent) | Move a single component "manually."
[`GetPose`](#getpose) | Get the current location and orientation of a component.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}

The code examples below assume that you have a robot configured with a gripper, and that you add the required code to connect to your robot and import any required packages at the top of your code file.
Go to your robot's **code sample** tab on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) for boilerplate code to connect to your robot.

{{% /alert %}}

### Move

> `Move` is the primary way to move multiple components, or to move any object to any other location.

Author: For future reference, what is the rationale here? I was trying to be concise but is it not clear that it's a method as opposed to, say, a parameter?

> `Move` is the primary way to move multiple components, or to move any object to any other location.

Reviewer 2: Avoiding confusion. It's a small change but I think it's more readable. And with the headline right before it being the same I think it's nicer

Given a destination pose and a component to move to that destination, `Move` will:

1. Construct a full kinematic chain from goal to destination including all movable components in between.

> 2. Solve that chain to place the goal at the destination while meeting specified constraints.

Reviewer: "...move the specified component frame to the destination..."

> 2. Solve that chain to place the goal at the destination while meeting specified constraints.

Author: okay

3. Execute that movement to move the actual robot.
4. Return whether or not this process succeeded.

The volumes associated with all configured robot components (local and remote) will be taken into account for each request to ensure that the robot does not collide with itself.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `component_name` ([ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)): Name of the piece of the robot that should arrive at the destination.
  Note that this is solved such that the distal end of the component arrives at the destination.
  For example, when moving a robotic arm, the piece that will arrive at the destination is the end effector attachment point, not the base of the arm.

- `destination` ([PoseInFrame](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.PoseInFrame)):

>   Describes where the `component_name` should end up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Describes where the `component_name` frame should be moved to.
```

  Note that the destination pose is relative to the distal end of the specified frame.
  This means that if the `destination` is the same as the `component_name` frame, for example an arm's frame, then a pose of {X: 10, Y: 0, Z: 0} will move that arm’s end effector by 10 mm in the local X direction.

- `world_state` ([WorldState](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.WorldState)) (*optional*): Data structure specifying information about the world around the robot.
  Used to augment the motion solving process.
  `world_state` includes obstacles and transforms:
  - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
    When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
    Important considerations:
    - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
    - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.

>       This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This ensures that obstacles that are attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
```

>     - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.

Reviewer: I think this could be distilled down to just...

```suggestion
    - Geometries are located with respect to the *origin* of the specified frame.
```

...and lose the `distal`, `proximal` language.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Geometry locations are defined with respect to the *origin* of the specified frame.
```
Would this be more clear?

Reviewer: Yep!

      Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
      A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
      This is different from `destination` and `component_name`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.

>   - **Transforms**: These are a list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Reviewer: @JessamyT No update to this line?

Author: Yeah...can "arbitrary" come out? And I guess I should add another sentence like 
```suggestion
  - **Transforms**: These are a list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify other transformations to temporarily add to the frame system at solve time.
  Transforms can be used to account for geometries that are attached to the robot but not configured as robot components.
  For example, you could use a transform to represent the volume of a marker held in your robot's gripper.
  These transformations will not be added to the config or carried into later processes.
```

- `constraints` ([Constraints](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/api/service/motion/v1#Constraints)): Pass in optional [motion constraints](./constraints/).
  By default, motion is unconstrained with the exception of obstacle avoidance.

- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): A generic struct, containing extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): Whether the move was successful.
- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

**Example usage:**

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
 // Access the Motion Service
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}

// Assumes a gripper configured with name "my_gripper" on the robot
myFrame := "my_gripper_offset"

goalPose := PoseInFrame(0, 0, 300, 0, 0, 1, 0)

// Move the gripper

> moved, err := motionService.Move(context.TODO(), goalPose, worldState, nil, nil)

Reviewer: `context.Background()` ?

Author: I don't know? Does it matter?

Reviewer: Its just that there's a TODO right in that line, and it would actually be executable with a `Background()`, although there are other things the user would necessarily need to set up.

```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### MoveSingleComponent

> *`MoveSingleComponent` allows you to bypass Viam’s internal motion planning entirely, if desired, for a single component.*

Author: It is italicized for emphasis. Maybe it should be a note box? But that doesn't feel quite right. It is important that it bypasses motion planning because it's part of the motion API so someone might reasonably expect that it employs, rather than bypasses, motion planning.

`MoveSingleComponent` translates the given destination into the frame of the specified component, and then calls `MoveToPosition` on that component to move it to the desired location.
As of April 21, 2023, [arms](/components/arm/) are the only component supported by `MoveSingleComponent`.

As the name of the method suggests, only the single component specified by `component_name` will actuate.

An example of when this may be useful is if you have implemented your own custom arm model, and wish to use your own motion planning for it.
Implement `MoveToPosition` on that arm using whatever method you desire to plan motion to the specified pose, and then use `MoveSingleComponent` to pass the destination in the frame of any other robot component.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}} <a id="move-vs-movetoposition">

If this method is called with an arm that uses Viam’s motion planning on the backend, then this method is equivalent to using `robot.TransformPose` to transform the destination into the frame of the arm, and then calling [`MoveToPosition`](/components/arm/#movetoposition) on the arm directly.

> Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

Author: I do not think the arm docs need a note because if someone is using the arm API instead of the motion API, they would not expect that the motion service is coming into play. The arm API doesn't have a world_state parameter; this note is only here because this motion service method DOES have a world_state parameter but it might not be used when the call is executed.

> Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

Author: Put another way, if someone is looking at the arm docs, none of the methods have a world_state so the reader would never think a world_state would be used. If someone is looking at this doc, they wouldn't necessarily realize that this motion service method actually indirectly calls an arm method.

> Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

Author: Peter suggests that we add a note to arm saying that one arm can hit another arm if you're just using the arm API, and that to avoid that you should use the motion service, but that's not specific to this section or to this PR.

> Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking if someone uses the arm component but doesn't yet know about the motion service it may be nice? But maybe calling out to it at the end which I think we do is enough

> Note that `arm.MoveToPosition` does not use `world_state`, so collision checking and obstacle avoidance *will not* be performed.

Author: Yeah it's just that we would link to either the motion service in general, or to the `move` method, because this movesinglecomponent method does NOT really employ the motion service as expected so we wouldn't want to link them to here.

If you need collision checking and obstacle avoidance, use [`Move`](#move).

{{% /alert %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `component_name` ([ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)): The name of the component to move.
  This component must support the `move_to_position` API call with a Pose.
  As of April 21, 2023, [arm](/components/arm/) is the only component so supported.

- `destination` ([PoseInFrame](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.PoseInFrame)):
  Describes where the `component_name` should end up.
  Can be any pose, from the perspective of any component whose location is configured as a [`frame`](../frame-system/).
  The `destination` will be converted into the frame of the component specified in `component_name` when passed to `move_to_position`.

- `world_state` ([WorldState](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/common/index.html#viam.proto.common.WorldState)) (*optional*): Data structure specifying information about the world around the robot.

>   **See [note above](#move-vs-movetoposition); a custom implementation of `MoveToPosition` may or may not make use of `world_state`.**

Reviewer: Should be more explicit here. There is no "may or may not", it is only "will not".

Author: Doesn't it depend on whether the user implements it such that it will?

Author: Is this better?
```suggestion
  **See [note above](#move-vs-movetoposition); a custom implementation of `MoveToPosition` will not make use of `world_state` unless you write an implementation that uses it.**
```

Reviewer: We completely removed WorldState from the component API, so I guess it depends on the definition of "custom". If it's an entirely new interface, is it really a custom `MoveToPosition` implementation? I feel like it is not.

  - **Obstacles**: Geometries located at a pose relative to some frame.
    When solving a motion plan with movable frames that contain inherent geometries, the solved path is constrained such that none of those inherent geometries intersect with the obstacles.
    Important considerations:
    - If a motion begins with a component already in collision with an obstacle, collisions between that specific component and that obstacle will not be checked.
    - The Motion Service assumes that obstacles with mobile parents move along with their parents while solving.
      This ensures that obstacles that are temporarily attached to moving components do not cause collisions during movement.
    - Geometries are "part of" their frame, rather than at the distal end of the frame.
      Their poses are relative to the *origin* of the specified frame.
      A geometry associated with the frame of an arm with a pose of {X: 0, Y: 0, Z: -10} will be interpreted as being 10mm below the base of the arm, not 10mm below the end effector.
      This is different from `destination` and `component_name`, where poses are relative to the distal end of a frame.

>   - **Transforms**: These are a list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify arbitrary other transformations that will be ephemerally added to the frame system at solve time.

Author: Note to self: change this in the same way that line 147 is changed.

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Transforms**: A list of `PoseInFrame` messages that specify other transformations to temporarily add to the frame system at solve time.
  Transforms can be used to account for geometries that are attached to the robot but not configured as robot components.
  For example, you could use a transform to represent the volume of a marker held in your robot's gripper.
  Transforms are not added to the config or carried into later processes.
```

Author: NVM; after talking to Peter I will just remove the details from this and say "not used"
